one channel locate the results at
Facebook or Yelp or Dropbox Scott but
what they will do is look at you
something so if you take an omnichannel
approach and leverage all of them and
repurpose your content you can do quite
well you just got to be patient
welcome back to office hours I'm David
Meltzer and I am so excited because
every once in a while it's good to feel
old and this next guest makes me feel
very old because I've known them of him
since he was 16 he's been a mentee from
a close and afar over the years he's
been honored by the president
entrepreneur Forbes he's the top of all
top entrepreneurs Neil Patel welcome to
office hours uh thanks for having me
well you know I always say I bet on the
jockey and you and another mentee of
mine now are all grown up and there's
probably no better feeling in the world
to have known that not only have you
planted seeds and usually we plant seeds
under trees we never get to sit under
but it's so nice to be able to sit under
the shade in the shadow of such great
people like Neil Patel I knew you were
going to be successful the first time I
met you I know the first thing we did
was with the Pro Football Hall of Fame
here in Las Vegas I'm not sure you could
even and drink at the time you weren't
old enough
and yet as a New York Times best-selling
author speaker consultant to the biggest
and brightest you are Paving the way for
so many people what do you think it was
about your personality at such a young
age that attracted not just me but all
of the genre of entrepreneurs that I
surrounded myself with what I consider
to be the spirit of excellent from Hall
of Famers billionaires and entrepreneurs
who the minute they met Neil Patel would
tell me oh my God that kid's going to be
so successful what do you think it was
at a young age inside of you that
attracted people like me and my friends
so I think it was two main things the
first is being helpful a lot of people
want to network with others get to know
them but all they're looking for is what
can they do for me instead of how can I
help these other people and not worrying
about if they're going to do anything
for you in exchange just help give away
a lot of good will and don't think about
what you're going to get in exchange and
you'll in the long run it all pays off
it's karma the second thing is just
being transparent and open so a lot of
people when they're starting off they're
like oh I'm really good at this and I'm
so successful I made all this money and
look at these cars I have in these homes
if you're so successful successful
people aren't going to help you because
you don't need help if you're
transparent you tell them your struggles
your successes we're having issues and
you're telling them all about the ups
and the Downs because that's common it's
normal entrepreneurship is like a roller
coaster people are more likely to a
relate to you and B help you
you sure look up to you but in today's
space there's a lot of information out
there especially for young adults do I
go to college do I build my own company
do I work for a corporation do I become
an influencer when you were 16 what's
the best advice that you can give anyone
today because it's changed drastically
in the last change a lot yeah so that
they can find their path or just feel
good about where they're going
the best thing you do is you're 16 you
can go learn a lot from YouTube or
websites or blogs you can go to college
if you want college isn't going to teach
you as much as you may think if you want
to be a doctor I get it you have to but
go out there and learn but the bigger
thing is it's not just about learning
whether it's events and online it's
actually about doing so take some
tidbits of information that you're
learning and Gathering and then just go
and execute and you'll quickly figure
out if it works or it doesn't work when
you're 16 or even 17 or 18 over 24 what
you'll find is things don't go the way
you want you don't make as many as quick
as you want you don't get the traction
as quick as you want but you're young
you have all the time in the world you
probably aren't married you probably
don't have all these responsibilities so
what you should do is just go and
execute on what you're learning on
you'll make mistakes learn from your
mistakes and avoid making the same one
over and over again and eventually it'll
lead you down a path on what you should
be doing and that'll get you to where
you want thanks for coming on Neil you
know I really appreciate your story
because I've hired and fired so many
marketing companies and really have had
to learn Marketing in my own business
and I really look at my business as like
a marketing company I think almost all
businesses are really marketing
companies
I've got to learn SEO and had spent so
much time figuring stuff out and sort of
putting content out on the internet
um you know years and years ago and we
drive a lot of you know traffic to our
website now because of it
my question is is you know it's changing
constantly Google's making updates you
know people say SEO is dead I don't I
don't believe it is what would you tell
you know entrepreneurs or people in
their business like where do they need
to be thinking about right now where are
things going because all this stuff is
changing social media has changed that
um you know just dropping content on
those keyword friendly it doesn't work
anymore so what do you have to be
thinking about not only for today to get
movement in your business from a
marketing perspective especially SEO so
here's a quick stat Google makes on
average over nine algorithm updates per
day wow not per week not per year per
day
so when you think about that stat
Facebook's making a lot of algorithm
changes Instagram is Tick Tock is
LinkedIn all these platforms are
none of these channels are really dead
what you'll find is they're harder than
they were before because once other
people find that a channel works really
well you start getting a lot more
competition people investing in it so it
takes longer to get results and you have
to end up spending more time and money
on it where the Market's going whether
it's for SEO or any platforms is this
first off it's omnichannel you can't
build a business off of one marketing
channel anymore if you think about Yelp
Yelp grew largely through SEO if you
think about Facebook they grew largely
through the email invite flow your
friend invited you to join Facebook if
you look at Dropbox they grew through
the social platforms like Twitter tweet
and get more space so these days one
channel won't get the results at
Facebook or Yelp or Dropbox got but what
they will do is look at you something so
if you take an omnichannel approach and
leverage all of them and repurpose your
content you can do quite well you just
got to be patient and give it time in
the next 24 months and I see this more
and more with the people that I mentored
today
is that they see marketing as an expense
uh and good question and it's going to
provide a huge opportunity for those
people like you and like you reverse
mentored me and taught me to make an
investment in my community and
everything also take care of itself
there's going to be a separation and
those who take this investment approach
are going to benefit exponentially
comparatively to I see every day more
and more people dropping out of the game
because they see it as an expense the
expense keeps going up and they're not
patient enough to see the benefits of a
community most of the people here have
built really nice communities but they
haven't experienced the next Double and
the bigger you are the next Double is
even bigger
how can we explain this variance between
expense and investment and how important
is the investment in the community today
comparatively to 12 months ago
super important to invest in community
it's more important than ever if you
look at individuals ex the Kardashians
or LeBron James and the list goes on on
Oprah Tony Robbins Brands can create
massive companies in these days billion
plus dollar companies that didn't exist
before and it's not because it's a
personal brand or corporate brand it's
because they have a community so the
more you invest now the better off you
are because as I mentioned earlier with
the algorithm updates it's getting
harder and it takes longer so time is
money the quicker you do it or the
earlier you get started the cheaper it's
going to be the second thing you need to
think about is there's two aspects of
marketing one channel has a direct Roi
one group doesn't really have a direct
Roi so for example if you're doing
Google paid ads you spend a dollar you
should make two dollars maybe not right
then and there but over the lifetime
value of your customer it should be Roi
positive the other aspect that's
intangible and this is the investing
side that a lot of companies are
resistant on is branding and you got to
invest to build a brand the last time I
looked it up which was a few months ago
over a million people a month on Google
in the United States search for the term
shoes over 7 million people a month are
searching for the term Nike each and
every single month Nike mainly sells
shoes yes they have a lot of other
products it shows you the power of
branding when you think about cars like
electric you may think Tesla it's not
because you did a Google search it's
because of their brand same with credit
cards American Express Visa Mastercard
the list goes on for most Industries so
you got to invest in a brand whether
it's creating good content Community TV
commercials radio it doesn't matter if
you're not getting your brand out there
you're not going to win in the long run
it's amazing because when you asked
around the world what you think of when
you think of Genius over 99 of the
people answered Einstein my bet is in
100 years they'll answer Patel thank you
so much joining us here Neil Patel my
heart rings with joy and pride to have
you here with me and my team